“Clinton sailed for New York on the fifth of June, leaving Cornwallis
in chief command of the British troops at the South. Before his
departure, Clinton issued a proclamation, declaring all persons not
in military service, who were prisoners at Charleston, released from
their paroles, provided they returned to their allegiance as subjects
of Great Britain. So far, well; but not the sequel. All persons
refusing to comply with this requisition were declared to be enemies
and rebels, and were to be treated accordingly. And more; they were
required to enroll themselves as militia under the king’s standard.
This flagrant violation of the terms of capitulation aroused a spirit
of indignant defiance, which proved a powerful lever in overturning the
royal power in the South. Many considered themselves released from all
the obligations of their paroles, and immediately armed themselves in
defence of their homes and country, while others refused to exchange
their paroles for any new conditions. The silent influence of eminent
citizens who took this course was now perceived by Cornwallis, and,
in further violation of the conditions of capitulation, he sent many
leading men of Charleston as close prisoners to St. Augustine, while a
large number of the Continental soldiers were cast into the loathsome
prison-ships, and other vessels in the harbor.”

“But when the trumpet-blasts of the conqueror of Burgoyne were heard
upon the Roanoke, and the brave hearts of Virginia and North Carolina
were gathering around the standard of Gates, the patriots of the
South lifted up their heads, and many of them, like Samson rising in
strength, broke the feeble cords of ‘paroles’ and ‘protections,’ and
smote the Philistines of the crown with mighty energy. Sumter sounded
the bugle among the hills on the Catawba and Broad Rivers; Marion’s
shrill whistle rang amid the swamps on the Pedee; and Pickens and
Clarke called forth the brave sons of liberty upon the banks of the
Saluda, the Savannah, the Ogeechee, and the Alatamaha.
